README.md, before:

NPM License Checker
===================

[![Build Status](https://www.travis-ci.org/davglass/license-checker.svg?branch=master)](https://www.travis-ci.org/davglass/license-checker)

*As of v17.0.0 the `failOn` and `onlyAllow` arguments take semicolons as delimeters instead of commas. Some license names contain
commas and it messed with the parsing*

Ever needed to see all the license info for a module and its dependencies?

It's this easy:

```shell
npm install -g license-checker

mkdir foo
cd foo
npm install yui-lint
license-checker
```

You should see something like this:

```
├─ cli@0.4.3
│  ├─ repository: http://github.com/chriso/cli
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ glob@3.1.14
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
├─ graceful-fs@1.1.14
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-graceful-fs
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
├─ inherits@1.0.0
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/inherits
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
├─ jshint@0.9.1
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ lru-cache@1.0.6
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-lru-cache
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ lru-cache@2.0.4
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-lru-cache
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ minimatch@0.0.5
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ minimatch@0.2.9
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ sigmund@1.0.0
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/sigmund
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
└─ yui-lint@0.1.1
   ├─ licenses: BSD
      └─ repository: http://github.com/yui/yui-lint
```

An asterisk next to a license name means that it was deduced from
an other file than package.json (README, LICENSE, COPYING, ...)
You could see something like this:

```
└─ debug@2.0.0
   ├─ repository: https://github.com/visionmedia/debug
   └─ licenses: MIT*
```

Options
-------

* `--production` only show production dependencies.
* `--development` only show development dependencies.
* `--start [path of the initial json to look for]`
* `--unknown` report guessed licenses as unknown licenses.
* `--onlyunknown` only list packages with unknown or guessed licenses.
* `--json` output in json format.
* `--csv` output in csv format.
* `--csvComponentPrefix` prefix column for component in csv format.
* `--out [filepath]` write the data to a specific file.
* `--customPath` to add a custom Format file in JSON
* `--overridesPath` to add a custom override JSON file to override license properties of any package
* `--exclude [list]` exclude modules which licenses are in the comma-separated list from the output
* `--relativeLicensePath` output the location of the license files as relative paths
* `--summary` output a summary of the license usage',
* `--failOn [list]` fail (exit with code 1) on the first occurrence of the licenses of the semicolon-separated list
* `--onlyAllow [list]` fail (exit with code 1) on the first occurrence of the licenses not in the semicolon-seperated list
* `--packages [list]` restrict output to the packages (package@version) in the semicolon-seperated list
* `--excludePackages [list]` restrict output to the packages (package@version) not in the semicolon-seperated list
* `--excludePrivatePackages` restrict output to not include any package marked as private
* `--direct look for direct dependencies only`

Exclusions
----------
A list of licenses is the simplest way to describe what you want to exclude.

You can use valid [SPDX identifiers](https://spdx.org/licenses/).
You can use valid SPDX expressions like `MIT OR X11`.
You can use non-valid SPDX identifiers, like `Public Domain`, since `npm` does
support some license strings that are not SPDX identifiers.

Examples
--------

```
license-checker --json > /path/to/licenses.json
license-checker --csv --out /path/to/licenses.csv
license-checker --unknown
license-checker --customPath customFormatExample.json
license-checker --exclude 'MIT, MIT OR X11, BSD, ISC'
license-checker --packages 'react@16.3.0;react-dom@16.3.0;lodash@4.3.1'
license-checker --excludePackages 'internal-1;internal-2'
license-checker --onlyunknown
```

Custom format
-------------

The `--customPath` option can be used with CSV to specify the columns. Note that
the first column, `module_name`, will always be used.

When used with JSON format, it will add the specified items to the usual ones.

The available items are the following:
- name
- version
- description
- repository
- publisher
- email
- url
- licenses
- licenseFile
- licenseText
- licenseModified

You can also give default values for each item.
See an example in [customFormatExample.json](customFormatExample.json).

Requiring
---------


```js
var checker = require('license-checker');

checker.init({
    start: '/path/to/start/looking'
}, function(err, packages) {
    if (err) {
        //Handle error
    } else {
        //The sorted package data
        //as an Object
    }
});
```

Debugging
---------

license-checker uses [debug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) for internal logging. There’s two internal markers:

* `license-checker:error` for errors
* `license-checker:log` for non-errors

Set the `DEBUG` environment variable to one of these to see debug output:

```shell
$ export DEBUG=license-checker*; license-checker
scanning ./yui-lint
├─ cli@0.4.3
│  ├─ repository: http://github.com/chriso/cli
│  └─ licenses: MIT
# ...
```

How Licenses are Found
----------------------

We walk through the `node_modules` directory with the [`read-installed`](https://www.npmjs.org/package/read-installed) module. Once we gathered a list of modules we walk through them and look at all of their `package.json`'s, We try to identify the license with the [`spdx`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/spdx) module to see if it has a valid SPDX license attached. If that fails, we then look into the module for the following files: `LICENSE`, `LICENCE`, `COPYING`, & `README`.

If one of the those files are found (in that order) we will attempt to parse the license data from it with a list of known license texts. This will be shown with the `*` next to the name of the license to show that we "guessed" at it.

Commit message:

Removes dedicated overridesPath to utilize customPath to provide more options.

README.md, after:

NPM License Checker
===================

[![Build Status](https://www.travis-ci.org/davglass/license-checker.svg?branch=master)](https://www.travis-ci.org/davglass/license-checker)

*As of v17.0.0 the `failOn` and `onlyAllow` arguments take semicolons as delimeters instead of commas. Some license names contain
commas and it messed with the parsing*

Ever needed to see all the license info for a module and its dependencies?

It's this easy:

```shell
npm install -g license-checker

mkdir foo
cd foo
npm install yui-lint
license-checker
```

You should see something like this:

```
├─ cli@0.4.3
│  ├─ repository: http://github.com/chriso/cli
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ glob@3.1.14
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
├─ graceful-fs@1.1.14
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-graceful-fs
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
├─ inherits@1.0.0
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/inherits
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
├─ jshint@0.9.1
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ lru-cache@1.0.6
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-lru-cache
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ lru-cache@2.0.4
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/node-lru-cache
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ minimatch@0.0.5
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ minimatch@0.2.9
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
│  └─ licenses: MIT
├─ sigmund@1.0.0
│  ├─ repository: https://github.com/isaacs/sigmund
│  └─ licenses: UNKNOWN
└─ yui-lint@0.1.1
   ├─ licenses: BSD
      └─ repository: http://github.com/yui/yui-lint
```

An asterisk next to a license name means that it was deduced from
an other file than package.json (README, LICENSE, COPYING, ...)
You could see something like this:

```
└─ debug@2.0.0
   ├─ repository: https://github.com/visionmedia/debug
   └─ licenses: MIT*
```

Options
-------

* `--production` only show production dependencies.
* `--development` only show development dependencies.
* `--start [path of the initial json to look for]`
* `--unknown` report guessed licenses as unknown licenses.
* `--onlyunknown` only list packages with unknown or guessed licenses.
* `--json` output in json format.
* `--csv` output in csv format.
* `--csvComponentPrefix` prefix column for component in csv format.
* `--out [filepath]` write the data to a specific file.
* `--customPath` to add a custom definition file in JSON
* `--exclude [list]` exclude modules which licenses are in the comma-separated list from the output
* `--relativeLicensePath` output the location of the license files as relative paths
* `--summary` output a summary of the license usage',
* `--failOn [list]` fail (exit with code 1) on the first occurrence of the licenses of the semicolon-separated list
* `--onlyAllow [list]` fail (exit with code 1) on the first occurrence of the licenses not in the semicolon-seperated list
* `--packages [list]` restrict output to the packages (package@version) in the semicolon-seperated list
* `--excludePackages [list]` restrict output to the packages (package@version) not in the semicolon-seperated list
* `--excludePrivatePackages` restrict output to not include any package marked as private
* `--direct look for direct dependencies only`

Exclusions
----------
A list of licenses is the simplest way to describe what you want to exclude.

You can use valid [SPDX identifiers](https://spdx.org/licenses/).
You can use valid SPDX expressions like `MIT OR X11`.
You can use non-valid SPDX identifiers, like `Public Domain`, since `npm` does
support some license strings that are not SPDX identifiers.

Examples
--------

```
license-checker --json > /path/to/licenses.json
license-checker --csv --out /path/to/licenses.csv
license-checker --unknown
license-checker --customPath customDefinitionExample.json
license-checker --exclude 'MIT, MIT OR X11, BSD, ISC'
license-checker --packages 'react@16.3.0;react-dom@16.3.0;lodash@4.3.1'
license-checker --excludePackages 'internal-1;internal-2'
license-checker --onlyunknown
```

Custom Definition File
-------------

The `--customPath` option can be used to specify a definition file that can define 
the fields to include in the output, override field values in the output, define exclusions, 
and more. Arguments will take precedence over the definition file where applicable.


The available fields include the following:
Note that the first column, `module_name`, will always be used.
- name
- version
- description
- repository
- publisher
- email
- url
- licenses
- licenseFile
- licenseText
- licenseModified

You can also give default values for each item.
See an example in [customDefinitionExample.json](customDefinitionExample.json).

Requiring
---------


```js
var checker = require('license-checker');

checker.init({
    start: '/path/to/start/looking'
}, function(err, packages) {
    if (err) {
        //Handle error
    } else {
        //The sorted package data
        //as an Object
    }
});
```

Debugging
---------

license-checker uses [debug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) for internal logging. There’s two internal markers:

* `license-checker:error` for errors
* `license-checker:log` for non-errors

Set the `DEBUG` environment variable to one of these to see debug output:

```shell
$ export DEBUG=license-checker*; license-checker
scanning ./yui-lint
├─ cli@0.4.3
│  ├─ repository: http://github.com/chriso/cli
│  └─ licenses: MIT
# ...
```

How Licenses are Found
----------------------

We walk through the `node_modules` directory with the [`read-installed`](https://www.npmjs.org/package/read-installed) module. Once we gathered a list of modules we walk through them and look at all of their `package.json`'s, We try to identify the license with the [`spdx`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/spdx) module to see if it has a valid SPDX license attached. If that fails, we then look into the module for the following files: `LICENSE`, `LICENCE`, `COPYING`, & `README`.

If one of the those files are found (in that order) we will attempt to parse the license data from it with a list of known license texts. This will be shown with the `*` next to the name of the license to show that we "guessed" at it.
